---
title: 'What are the behavioural markers of problem gambling and how to alleviate them'
date: 2023-09-12
permalink: https://kezhangeco.github.io/files/research_SOP_ninja.html

---

#  **Chasing in online gambling and its practical application in gambling intervention** 

This study examines between- and within-session chasing behavior in online gambling using data from PlayNow.com in British Columbia, Canada. Chasing refers to a tendency to increase betting in an effort to recoup prior losses (i.e., ‘loss chasing’) or to satisfy an increased gambling desire following wins (i.e., ‘win chasing’). The study found that average gamblers returned more slowly after a losing session and returned more quickly after a winning session. Within-session chasing depends on game type, chasing measurement (bet amount vs. quit probability), and outcome timeframe (immediate vs. cumulative outcomes). After losing more on the last bet, gamblers staked larger amounts over a longer session, but when cumulative losses mounted, gamblers staked smaller amounts over a shorter session. After winning more, gamblers bet more over a shorter session. Furthermore, VSE and Non-VSE gamblers did not differ in between-session chasing but did differ in within-session chasing 

The study also evaluated a behavioral intervention to reduce loss chasing using a ‘cashing out’ procedure. In non-problem gamblers, the cashing out manipulation significantly lowered the amount wagered, aligned with the realization effect. There was no interaction between the cashing-out condition and the gambling group, although the cashing-out procedure was not statistically significant in the at-risk or problem gambling groups. 

These findings provide future directions for identifying gambling problems based on behavioral tracking data and present proof of concept data for a new digital harm reduction tool. The study suggests that future research aiming to identify high-risk gambling patterns should also consider within-session behavioral markers.

